# Sustainable Personal Accounts

With this project we promote the idea that each AWS practitioner should have his/her own account, so as to practice almost freely on the platform and accelerate innovation. At the same time, in corporate environment there is a need for managed costs and for forcing towards software automation. For this reason, accounts are purged at regular intervals, and recycled.

## Guiding principles for sustainable personal accounts

**We drive innovation by experimentations** - Professionals who can access the AWS console, APIs or SDK have a strong advantage to build systems out of available software and data constructs, and to prove the business opportunity or to fail fast. Large enterprises are advised to connect thousands of employees to AWS native capabilities so as to foster innovation at scale. A key performance indicator is the number of AWS accounts assigned to individuals across the corporation.

**We trust our employees and colleagues** - In most cases, temporary resources used on cloud infrastructure for some experimentation will require a very limited budget, and will stay isolated from corporate mainstream systems. This is creating an opportunity for a distinct responsibility models, where controls that are traditionally used for production and for large systems are relaxed on personal cloud accounts. For each personal cloud account, a monthly budget can be consumed without additional financial control. A key performance indicator is the number of personal cloud accounts that go above budget and that deserve specific scrutiny and corrective action.

**We influence corporate culture with recycling** - While production information systems have life cycles of multiple years, experimental information systems may be deployed for some hours only. Performing enterprises do clear cloud personal accounts used by their software engineers and data engineers for experiments and for labs. This is leading employees towards Continuous Integration (CI) practice in their day to day activities, that is foundational for sustainable agility. Business stakeholders can set the recycling horizon as a corporate policy. We recommend to start with monthly clearing of personal cloud accounts, and then move progressively towards weekly or even daily expirations. One key performance indicator is the cost saving incurred by deleted cloud resources on recycle. Another key performance indicator is the level of activity around git repositories initiated by individual persons.

**We scale with automated guardrails and with insourced blueprints** - Jeff Bezos has a saying: “Good intentions don't work. Mechanisms do.” In the context of this project, guardrails mean that corporate policies should apply automatically to personal cloud accounts. In addition, these accounts are recycled periodically. These cycles are giving security teams periodic opportunities to update security controls and, therefore, to adapt continuously to cyber-threats. On the other hand, the tooling provided to employees working on the cloud is specific to each enterprise. Also, this tooling is evolving over time. In the context of this project, we provide complete freedom regarding the execution of custom software on each personal cloud account. In addition, with periodic recycling of these accounts there is an opportunity to continuously update the toolbox provided to employees.

## Cyclic life cycle for personal accounts

Since we want to purge and to recycle accounts assigned to individuals, this can be represented as a state
machine that features following states and transitions:

- **Vanilla Accounts** - When an account has just been created by Control Tower, ServiceNow, or by any other mean, it may need to be associated with a specific identity. Note that Control Tower does a pretty good job to create an identity in AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) before creating a new account. For accounts in this state, the most important activity is to add tags to the account itself. Then the tagged account can be moved to the next state.

- **Assigned Accounts** - When an account has been formally linked to some identity with tags, it is considered assigned to a person. For accounts in this state, there is a need to enforce corporate policies by adjusting resources and by creating specific roles and policies in the account itself. This process can take minutes or even hours. Once it has been properly prepared, the assigned account can be moved to the next state.

- **Released Accounts** - This is the state where an account can be used almost freely by the person assigned to it. Guardrails can include: Service Control Policies (SCP) assigned to the Organizational Unit (OU) where the account is sitting, AWS CloudTrail for traceability, IAM policies to provide observability to third-party tools, Billing monitoring and alerting. Released Accounts can stay in this state as long as determined by corporate policy, but there is a need to set a limit anyway. We recommend to expire accounts at least once per month, since this preserves cloud resources for weeks, while providing a monthly window to roll out updated corporate policies or new guardrails and blueprints across personal accounts. Enterprises with strong Continuous Integration (CI) practice should adopt weekly expirations at least, or, if possible, daily expirations.

- **Expired Accounts** - Released Accounts are expired at regular intervals (e.g., daily, weekly, or monthly). Activities on expired accounts consist of systematic deletion of resources. Some resources may be preserved though the process, either because they have been tagged for explicit deadline at a later date, or because they cannot be created again (e.g., CloudFormation stacks created by Control Tower). Once accounts have been purged, they can be moved to the state of Assigned Accounts for a new cycle.
